[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
rachel burden and charlie stacey our
headlines today
act like you have the virus that's the
advice in a new campaign urging people
to abide by lockdown rules
donald trump is banned permanently from
twitter because it worries his tweets
could incite
more violence a warning over coronavirus
scams after a 92 year old woman was
injected with a fake vaccine
good morning unlikely heroes giant
killing of banana skins all part of fa
cup third round weekend but liverpool
survived their own scare to beat a young
aston villa squad decimated by a
covenant outbreak
good morning another bitterly cold start
for many
and given we've had quite a bit of snow
in the last 24 hours
ice is a concern this morning as is
freezing bob more details for you in
around about 15 minutes
[Music]
good morning it's january then sorry
it's saturday the 9th of january that's
a good start isn't it
and here's our top story today people in
england are being urged
to behave like they are infected with
coronavirus as part of a new public
awareness campaign
encouraging people to stick to the rules
the message which will be shared on tv
radio and social media comes as the uk
reported
the highest daily death toll since the
start of the pandemic
our correspondent dan johnson has more
clovid19 especially the new variant is
spreading quickly across the country
this puts many people at risk of serious
disease
a new campaign with a clear message
once more we must all stay home
the stark warnings come in response to
the intense pressure on hospitals
which are getting close to capacity
especially in london
and the south east london's mayor
declared a major incident yesterday
saying the virus was out of control many
doctors are frustrated
i'm very worried that we've reached the
peak and we're really not seeing the
kind of behavior that we saw in the
first wave
and i and many of my colleagues in
medicine are extremely worried
that the peak the this wave is just
going to carry on rising and rising
and that will reach a point where the
nhs simply won't be able to cope with it
yesterday's record figures showed 1 325
people died within 28 days of a positive
covid test
the most in a single day during the
entire pandemic
the total number of deaths now stands at
just short of 80
000. there are more record figures
another 68 000 cases were recorded
yesterday
and 31 624 patients
are being treated in hospitals across
the uk
ali is one of them her whole family
tested positive on christmas day
i was fine healthy young family
just getting on with my life and this is
completely
flawed i was told two days ago that
if they didn't put me on a ventilator i
would die i have seen
two people die in bed either side of me
whilst i've been in this hospital one in
three people with covid
don't show symptoms so the message is
act
like you have the virus and don't go out
don't mix with people
there are signs that policing of the
rules will get tougher
with government sources saying the time
for engaging explaining and encouraging
is now over
giving way to more strict enforcement
the next few weeks
look bad vaccines give clear hope for
the future but for now
you must all stay home protect the nhs
save lives dan johnson bbc news
twitter says it has permanently banned
president trump from the site following
a review of his account
the social media platform said his
tweets were highly likely to encourage
more violence
our north america correspondent david
willis joins us now from los angeles
did this come as any great surprise
given that they had given a specific
warning about banning him
they had given a warning rachel you're
absolutely right and isn't it bizarre
the most powerful man
in the world no longer has access to one
of his most
treasured assets his twitter account
donald trump of course once described
himself
as the hemingway of characters he said
that
he didn't need the mainstream media here
he could talk directly
to his supporters and that he's been
doing 88 million
of them for many years but twitter
citing what it called the risk of
further incitement
of violence has now permanently closed
down donald trump's
twitter account and there was a bizarre
sort of contest of whack-a-mole tonight
because the president attempted
in the absence of his own account to pop
up on other accounts uh
the white house official account among
them to voice his displeasure
about twitter's decision and to mention
that he is now considering
setting up his own social media outlets
well it's difficult to imagine one that
will give him quite
as much access to the great public here
than twitter but nonetheless mr trump
are very dismayed by all accounts about
this meanwhile
the democrats are pressing ahead with
plans to
or attempts to remove him from office
the house speaker
nancy pelosi saying today that if donald
trump doesn't resign
she will seek to invoke what's called
the 25th amendment
or go for his uh
go for his impeachment which would mean
that he was the only president on record
where to succeed
to be impeached twice in his presidency
extraordinary times in the united states
at the moment thank you very much david
willis
people are being warned to stay vigilant
about scams in which criminals offer
covet vaccinations
for a fee in one case a pensioner was
injected with a
fake covert 19 vaccine and charged 160
pounds by a man pretending to be a
health worker
people have also been sent text messages
look out for these
taking them i should say to a fake nhs
website
with a booking link asking for credit
card details breakfast
j mccubbin reports moments before this
image was captured
this man injected a 92 year old with a
fake
coveted vaccine he'd claimed to be from
the nhs
and then administered a jab in the arm
from what has been described like a
dart-like
charged 160 pounds took the money from
the lady
and then and they disappeared and just
to add
insult to that injury then we attended
several days later
to try to solicit an extra 100 pound so
this has been a horrendous
experience for the victim it's not known
what was injected into the pensioner but
a hospital checked found her
unharmed this is an absolute disgusting
crime it is utterly unacceptable assault
and fraud um it will not be tolerated
we will do everything we can to try to
track down
uh and catch this person before they
carry out this offence on anyone else
it's thought over 22 million pounds has
been lost to covet related scams
these images show a makeshift laboratory
set up in a kitchen in west sussex
fake covered cures had been made and
sold to people in america and france
but frank ludlow was caught in his local
post office
as he tried to send more he was
convicted in july
how significant a problem is this i mean
how many fraudsters are there kind of
trying to cash in on the crisis i mean
it's
extensive so just since the first
lockdown in march
we've had about half a million people um
come to us for advice online
we've doubled since october the number
of people coming direct to us for
advice on the phone and it's it's not
just a small group i mean one in three
people from our research
have been targeted by some form of
covert related scams since the pandemic
began
today police advised that no one from
official vaccination
programs will ever turn up unannounced
they will never ask for bank details
and no one will ever be charged for the
vaccine
but with the vaccination program rolling
out across the country today there
is a warning beware the criminals trying
to exploit those
who desperately want protection from the
deadly virus
james corbin bbc news prince william has
paid tribute to nhs staff
working on the kovit front line and
thank them for their continued efforts
during the pandemic
in a video call with staff at hometown
university hospital it's in east london
he heard about the challenges they're
facing following the recent rise in
patients with the virus
a huge thank you to all of you for all
the hard work the
the the sleepless nights the the lack of
sleep the the stress the anxiety
the exhaustion and and everything that
you're doing we are so grateful you're
all in my thoughts
and uh catherine and i and all the
children talk about all of you guys
every day
so we're making sure the children
understand the sacrifices that all of
you are making
the director michael apted known for his
long-running 7up series has died aged
79.
the documentary followed the same group
of people every seven years from
childhood into their 60s
he also directed films including
gorillas in the mist and the 1999 bomb
movie the world is not enough
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news